I haven't said anything yet.
It's all right.
Thanks for joining us this morning,
starting off your conference,
second session of the day.
I'm really excited to be here
this morning to talk to you about
what's new in Core Location.
We've got a lot of stuff
to talk about today,
so let's dive right in.
But before I get started on content,
I want to take a few minutes
to ask why you're here today.
And I suspect there's probably
a few reasons for that.
I suspect we've probably got a few people
in the crowd who are location experts.
Maybe you've built some
applications that use location.
You've seen the potential that it has to
improve the experience for your users.
And then, on the other hand,
I imagine there are also some people
here today for whom this is new to them.
Maybe you're looking to develop
your first location-aware app.
You're not quite sure what it entails,
what's involved.
So I'm really hoping that today is
valuable for both groups of people.
So whether you're here because you've
done this before and you're hoping
that we've added new things that make
it even easier to incorporate location
to your application and really expand
the possibilities for your users,
or whether you're brand new and
you want to get started on your
first location-aware application,
we're really excited
that you're here today,
and we think we've got a lot
of great stuff to show you.
Why?
I know that we do this every year,
but I think it's really important
to just think about what can
location do for your application?
Why is it powerful?
And the answer is that location
is really powerful because it
provides context about your user.
iOS devices, it's really this whole new
platform that is inherently mobile.
Whether it's an iPhone, an iPod Touch,
or an iPad, users just expect to be able
to put these in their pocket,
put them in a bag, and take them out in
completely new surroundings.
So it's not a safe assumption to just
assume that the way things are now is
the way that things always will be.
So using location,
you can make it so that your
applications already are in
tune with where the user is,
with the environment that they're in.
Whether they're just moving across
town or moving to a new country.
Using location services,
your application can be aware and it
can immediately bring the user into a
context with which they're familiar.
It really breaks down that barrier
between what they're trying to
do and getting them to doing it.
But not only does it just make
your applications more intuitive,
we're starting to see brand
new use cases for location.
Five years ago,
the notion that we would have
devices in our pocket that allow
us to share what we're doing,
where we are,
and even bring our friends in the action,
social location, would be unheard of.
And if you look at iOS 5 alone,
we as Apple are really starting
to bring location into new
scenarios in the system.
With the new
Twitter integration in iOS 5,
we allow users to geotag their
location from any application.
They just hit a button,
and they're already tweeting.
We think location-based
reminders are going to be huge,
so that users can ask to be
reminded when they leave a certain
location or go to a new location.
And location-aware weather
just allows you to,
at a glance,
see the current conditions where you are,
no matter how far you've moved
since the last time that you
set the cities and weather app.
So that's us,
but it's really just the beginning.
Because what we're really excited
about are the possibilities that
we can continue to see realized,
and the applications that are
created by our developers.
And these are some of the big examples.
We have Yelp and Foursquare,
and we have fitness apps,
things like that.
But what we're really excited
about are the applications that
we haven't even thought of yet,
the applications that
are just in your heads,
that are just possibilities.
And it's our goal to make it possible
for you to build those applications,
to make it easy for you to just
take the location part as a given,
so that you can take that and
then move on to building the
really great user experience.
So, given all that,
hopefully I've convinced you that
we're really excited about this,
and we're really excited to see
what you're going to do with it.
What are we going to learn about today?
I'm going to start off by talking about
how to use the Core Location services.
We provide three different services.
I'm going to talk about each of them,
how to use them, and when to use them.
After that,
I'm going to talk about authorization,
about this notion of putting the user in
control of their location information.
Users are more likely to use
your applications if they feel
like they have the final say in
how their information is used.
And we've gone to a lot of effort
to make it possible for your
application to be aware of their
decisions and respond to it.
And then finally,
we're going to talk about some new
APIs we've added in Core Location.
And the way that I think of this is that
it really adds a new layer of meaning,
of context to location information.
It goes beyond coordinates and
moves location into the realm
of the way users perceive it.
So get ready for that.
So we have these APIs that
allow you to get your location.
How do you use them?
What are they?
When should you use them?
What I really want to emphasize
through all of this is that it's
really important to choose the
right service for your use case.
Applications use location in a
wide variety of different ways,
whether it's the user looking at
their device and looking at a map,
using location in a social way,
checking in,
or really just wanting to be able
to use location in the background.
These applications have
different location needs.
There are different trade-offs
that are acceptable to the user and
they have different costs as well.
So as we go through these,
try and think about where your
application fits in terms of these
services and what the best one to use is.
We have three different positioning
methods that underlie these services.
The first one is cell positioning,
and the way that this works is
that devices with cellular radio,
so our iPhone devices as
well as our 3G-enabled iPads,
are connected to a cellular network.
And we can get the unique identifier
of the cell tower that the
device is currently connected to,
and then based on that information,
if we go to a database and we
know where that cell tower is,
we can locate the device.
Now, because the device stays
camped on the cell network,
this is a really, really inexpensive form
of positioning to do,
and it's fast.
We immediately know which
cell network the device is on,
and so we just need to
do this database lookup.
Now, because cell towers tend
to cover a large region,
anywhere between 500 meters
up to several kilometers,
or in some cases even more than that,
this isn't the most accurate
method of positioning.
But it is the quickest,
and it does have the lowest
cost in terms of power.
The second type of positioning
we have is WiFi positioning.
And this works in a similar
way to cell positioning,
but what the device does is it
actually does a scan to see which
access points are near the device,
in the same way that the
AutoJoint scans work,
scanning to see if any known
networks are around so your device
can automatically associate.
And we can pull the MAC address,
and again, a unique identifier
from each access point,
and then by cross-referencing
from a database,
we know where those access points are,
and we thus know where the device is.
This is also relatively quick.
It's a bit more power intensive,
because it requires the device
to actually go and do a scan.
But it's still relatively quick,
because again,
it's just a lookup in a database.
And because the range associated
with WiFi access points
tends to be somewhat smaller,
this is also more accurate as well.
And then the third notion of
positioning is the one that you're
probably most familiar with,
and that is GPS.
And at a very high level,
GPS works by having a receiver
listening for signals from satellites
that are orbiting the Earth.
And if it can get signals
from enough satellites,
it can triangulate to determine
the device's position.
So why mention this one last,
because it's the most familiar one?
I really want to emphasize that
these technologies are complementary.
There's not one that's
better than the other.
It's not like GPS is always
the one that we want to use.
While it does have the best accuracy,
it doesn't get a fix quite as quickly
as cell or WiFi positioning does.
It can take a number of seconds
in order to detect satellites,
particularly in challenging
positioning environments.
And there are some environments
that are really difficult for GPS,
like an underground parking
garage or a subway system.
If it doesn't have at least
an indirect path to the sky,
GPS isn't going to work.
And finally, not all of our devices
have GPS receivers.
We've shipped a GPS with
the iPhone 3G and onward,
as well as with our 3G-enabled iPads.
But your users who use iPod
Touch devices and WiFi-only iPads,
or who use your applications in kind
of these non-traditional environments
where a GPS signal may not be available,
want to use your application too.
So it's really important to look at
these technologies as complementary,
and to look at them as a big
picture in terms of how they can
help your application use location.
So we have three different services
provided by the Core Location framework
that make use of each of these
technologies in different ways to
provide services to your application.
So you can think of the
technologies as the nuts and bolts,
the implementation details of
how the device positions you.
But the services are what
your application cares about.
They're your entry to
the location service.
They're what you use to
position your application.
So these are really the
decisions that you make.
We abstract away the
technologies into these services.
The three services are the
standard location service,
which is essentially a service aimed
at getting your application to the
best position as quickly as possible.
We have the significant
location change service.
And the purpose of that service is
to allow your device to get regular
updates when the user changes
their position significantly,
even when your device
is in the background.
And then finally,
we have the region monitoring service.
And this is a service that allows your
application to specify locations and
regions of interest that it cares about
and get notified by the Core Location
framework when the user enters or exits
those locations or regions of interest.
So I'm going to start off by talking
about the standard location service.
Again, this is the most conventional.
It's probably the first one that you
look at when you think of location.
And its goal is to get your application
a location quickly and accurately.
So you see this in use in Maps.
Turn-by-turn navigation
applications often use this.
So taking a look at the high
level of how this works,
if you view your application as a whole,
this is really just one part of it.
But the Core Location framework is
your entry to the location service.
It is a set of APIs that
you call to use location.
And then inside your application,
you will provide a delegate object.
We call it a delegate object
because you'll need to implement the
CL Location Manager delegate protocol.
This is essentially a set of methods
that your delegate object implements
in order to handle locations that are
received from the location service.
Now, inside the Core Location framework,
there are a few components
that you'll use.
The first is the CL Location Manager.
This is the central object that
you will use to request locations,
as well as determining the
authorization state of the device.
Now, when a location is received,
that comes back to your delegate
object in the form of a CL location
object that is essentially a data
object that contains all of the
information about the location.
The coordinates, the accuracy, altitude,
timestamp, speed, course,
all that information.
So how do you receive locations?
Well, it's as easy as creating
the Core Location Manager,
the CL Location Manager object,
and then calling StartUpdatingLocation.
You call that API, and then in return,
when the service determines a position,
it will call you back with the
LocationManager didUpdateToLocation,
FromLocation, they'll get callback.
And that provides you these
locations that you use.
So at a basic level,
it's all very straightforward.
You ask for a location,
you get a location back.
Couldn't be easier.
However, we find that applications often
want to customize the types of
locations that they get back.
And so we have a few ways of doing that,
ways of configuring the location manager.
The first thing you can
specify is a desired accuracy.
And this is essentially a way of saying,
how accurate a position do I really need?
For example,
if you have an application that
just needs to know what city the
user is in or the general vicinity,
you don't necessarily need the
best accurate position possible.
And in fact, waiting for that position
might be a mistake,
because it's more important for
your user to get-- for you to
get a location quickly so you can
display something to the user than
to get the most accurate position.
So desired accuracy is your
way of specifying how good
of a position that you need.
And under the hood,
Core Location then determines
which technologies to use
based on this accuracy.
So there could be a significant
power savings by specifying a higher
location accuracy if your use case
doesn't require the best possible.
In turn, better user experience.
The other property is
the distance filter.
And this is really aimed at simplifying
the logic for applications who don't
necessarily need to know every time
the user moves a tiny little bit.
For example,
if your application just cares
if the user changes cities,
or changes neighborhoods,
or walks some number of blocks,
but you don't necessarily care that
they moved a few meters down the street,
you can specify a distance filter.
And this is essentially how far
does the user need to move before
you get another location callback.
And in fact,
if you set this large enough, you know,
to kilometers or more,
the location service can actually
optimize by turning off certain
technologies and then restarting
them again when it's possible for
the user to have moved that distance.
If you say notify me every 10 kilometers,
the user is unlikely to
move that far in a minute,
for example.
Don't worry, though.
If a better accuracy
position becomes available,
so let's say there was a
1,000-meter accurate position,
and then all of a sudden a 100-meter
accurate position comes in,
I bet we get a better position,
your application will still
get notified about that.
So you get the best accuracy
position without having to get
all these callbacks repeatedly.
One other thing that you'll want to
notice about CL Location Manager,
which I'll come back to later,
is the authorization status,
which indicates the choice that the
user has made about your application
with regards to location services.
Now, one note about what we call
continuous location applications.
These are applications where
the user expects the same
experience from the application,
whether it's in the foreground or
whether it's in the background.
So examples of this are turn by
turn navigation applications.
The user wants to go
and check their email,
but they still need to know
when they need to turn right
at the next intersection.
Or fitness applications,
they still want to track their distance,
even if they switch over to the iPod app
to change what song they're listening to.
If your application's one where the
user expects that same experience,
that same accuracy,
expects the location to continue running,
even when the application's
in the background,
we have a way for you to do that.
So what you do is you add a
particular plist key to your
application's Info.plist.
And then once that key is set,
as long as the application
is using location,
it continues to run in the background
and receive location information.
Now, as with any of our services,
there is a cost to doing this.
Obviously, if the GPS is running,
that's going to have an effect
on the user's battery life,
as well as the CPU cost of
keeping location running.
So we really expect that this will really
only be of use for these use cases.
But if you need it, here's how to do it.
So that's a standard location service.
And it's great if you're really
in this environment where you
need the user's position as
accurately as possible right now.
But what if you're in an environment
where what you really care about is
when the user moves significantly?
It'd be kind of wasteful to
run the GPS the whole time if
all you want to do is detect,
all right, well, the user's moved, say,
300, 500 meters.
So I want my application
to check and see,
you know, maybe if another user is
nearby that they care about,
or maybe I want to
transmit that location.
Maybe it's a social network,
something like that.
It'd be really wasteful to
run the GPS the whole time.
And if you take a high level picture of
what happens to a device when it moves,
a variety of things change.
For example, the cell tower that the
device is camped on changes.
It may do scans for AutoJoin and
find different access points,
or it may camp on different
access points if the device moves.
And so we can actually
use that information,
these new cell towers or seeing
different Wi-Fi access points,
as a trigger to say, hey,
the user's probably moved.
And if we know that, then at that point,
we can do a position calculation and
notify your application if the user has,
in fact, moved a significant distance.
So we call this the Significant
Location Change API.
As I said,
it calculates the location when
the device moves significantly.
And the key advantage to this
API that you don't get with the
standard location service is that your
application does not have to be running
in order to receive these updates.
And by not running,
I mean either it can be in
the background suspended,
not receiving CPU time,
or it can actually be
completely terminated,
not in memory at all, not running.
And it can still be notified in the
background when these events occur.
And in iOS 5,
we've done a lot of work to improve
the performance of this API.
Whereas previously it functioned
exclusively based on cell towers,
we've added a number of these triggers
that we talked about to make this
API more accurate and ensure that you get
the notifications when the users move,
even if it's not a huge distance,
even if in some cases it's not
enough for them to move cell towers.
So we think this is a great way to
keep your application location aware,
aware of the user's context in those
situations where it's required.
So how do you use it?
So this is kind of the graphic I put up
for the standard location service before.
And the reason that I put it up
here is because it's very similar.
But instead of calling
startUpdatingLocation,
we have a new API called
startMonitoringSignificantLocationChanges
.
And you call this API on
the CL Location Manager,
and then you get the
same delegate callback.
You get the same Location Manager,
did update to location,
from location delegate callback.
So you start in a different way,
but you get the locations from
the same delegate callback.
So that's the significant
location change API.
And that's great.
It keeps your applications kind
of in tune with where the user is
without the costs of having your
application running all the time.
But we found that there are classes
of applications that don't necessarily
need to know every time the user moves.
Rather,
what they care about is when the user
goes to some locations of interest.
So this is very similar to before.
We have all these same
environmental signals.
But rather than notifying
you just when the user moves,
we can notify you when they get
to some area that you care about.
In this case,
there's a coffee house here that
maybe the user wanted to get
reminded of when they got near.
And so we have the region monitoring API.
And so what this does is it allows your
application to register locations of
information in a surrounding region,
so that when the user
enters or exits that region,
your application can be notified.
And like the significant
Location Change API,
your application can get launched in
the background even if it's not running.
Now, we've had this API since iOS 4,
and at the time,
it was based on cell positioning.
We've made a lot of improvements
in iOS 5 to improve accuracy.
Again, we're using these triggers
that we've defined.
So for example,
if the user camps on a new Wi-Fi network,
they associate or they disassociate,
or they turn the screen on their device,
we use that as kind of
a trigger to know that,
hey, the user's environment
has probably changed,
to check to see whether they've moved.
This is the same technology
that you'll see in the new
Reminders application in iOS 5.
So we think we've made a lot of
great strides towards building
a really robust service that
your application can depend on.
So, starting region monitoring.
This is a little different in
that rather than just saying,
"Go,
I want to start updating location," you
specify the regions that you care about.
And there are a few items of interest
that make up kind of these regions.
There's a coordinate,
so a latitude and longitude.
There's a radius,
which you can think of that as a
boundary at which you want to get
these entry and exit notifications.
When the user crosses that boundary,
you'll get notified.
And then an identifier so that you
can refer to these regions later.
You call the Start Monitoring for
Region API on CL Location Manager.
And then when an event occurs,
you get the Location Manager did
enter region or Location
Manager did exit region callbacks.
All right.
I already mentioned this.
One other note is that we also make
use of every type of position now.
In our iOS 4 API,
it was exclusively based
on cell positioning.
But if for some reason something on the
system happens to be using location,
we'll use that as well.
So that's one other improvement that
we've made to region monitoring.
So those are the services.
Those are how you use them.
That's what they can do.
And there's a lot of power there.
We think that there's a lot of
potential here to enable great new
use cases for your applications.
But with all these great new use cases,
it becomes really important to make
sure that the user stays in control of
how their location information is used.
The reason for that is that
the more confident they are,
the more likely they are to
use your new applications.
And the reality is that no
matter how cool your use case is,
no matter how amazing it is,
even if they paid money for your app
and they downloaded it and they're
totally on board to use your application,
not all users will have location
services enabled for your application.
It's just a fact.
It's a reality.
And so what's really important to do
and what will really make your users
be more confident in your application
is if you detect that and you provide
context to the user that allows them
to understand the implications of their
decision and lets them know what features
will and will not be available based
on the availability of location services.
So let's walk through some of the ways
in which users are allowed to make
decisions regarding location services.
The first thing is the
permission dialogue.
This is presented once per application,
and it's the user's opportunity
to make an additional decision.
They can say allow or don't allow.
And it's important to have a plan for
what happens if they say don't allow,
even if that's not what you expect.
We have a purpose property that allows
you to tell the user why your application
needs to use location services.
Now, you may not think this is necessary,
but there are a lot of applications
where location is really,
really useful,
but it's not necessarily immediately
apparent why it's needed.
A good example is the
built-in camera app.
It geotags photos so that the
users can later go into iPhoto,
for example,
and see where they took their pictures,
and even make those great
location-based slideshows.
But it's not immediately apparent to
the user when they open the camera app
why they would need to use location.
So the purpose property is
your way of telling the user
why location is important.
There's the status bar icon.
This is the user's indication
that an application in the system
is using location services.
And it's important to note that
this icon will stay present
whenever your application has
access to the user's location.
So this is straightforward
for the standard service.
It'll be there whenever you've called
Start Updating Location and haven't
called Stop Updating Location yet.
But for the significant change
in region monitoring services,
your application effectively has access
to the user's location the entire
time that those services are active.
Because by virtue of getting
notifications every time the user moves,
when you don't get a notification,
you know the user hasn't moved,
for example.
As a result,
that icon will be present whenever
any of the services are in use.
So just be aware of that.
If Location Services is
turned off on the device,
the system will present prompts
a limited number of times,
letting the user know that they
have disabled Location Services,
and inviting the user to
change their decision.
This won't always be shown to
avoid essentially pestering the
user into turning on Location,
but it's a good hint that will show
up a few times to let them know why
applications cannot use their Location.
So that's what happens
in the application.
However, the user also has the ability to
change their decision and to adjust
their preferences in settings,
as well as to see which applications
have used the location recently.
So there's the Master Location
Services switch,
which controls location
for all applications.
There are the list of applications
that have used Location.
Now, bear in mind that your application
will not show up in this list until the
first time it uses Location Services.
So just including the
framework isn't enough.
The first time you request
a Location Service,
you'll get an entry in this list.
Your application will.
There's a location arrow,
which is the user's guide to
which applications have been
using their location recently.
And it'll be displayed if
the application has used the
location in the past 24 hours.
And then finally,
there's the approval switch.
And we have methods on-- we have class
methods on CL Location Manager that
allow you to query this value
and respond appropriately to it.
And the way that you do that is with
the CL Authorization Status enum
and the Authorization Status class
method on CL Location Manager.
This is new in iOS 4.2, actually.
And I wanted to take some time to
guide you through kind of the different
states that your application can be in
with regards to location authorization.
There are actually four of them.
The first one is that it's
just not determined yet.
You haven't used a location API,
so the user hasn't been prompted yet.
They haven't made a choice.
There's the authorization state,
which is probably what you want,
saying that you're okay,
you're good to go, you can use location.
There's the denied state,
which means that the user has disabled
either location services system-wide,
or just for your application,
your application's individual switch.
And then there's this fourth state,
which is a little bit subtle.
It's the restricted state.
And it's similar to the denied state
in that the user cannot use location
services for your application.
But unlike the denied state,
the user cannot authorize
your application.
And the way that they could get
into the state is if parental
controls are enabled onto the device.
We allow, through parental controls,
the ability to restrict changes
in location authorization
for your application.
So if it's either denied,
don't allow is hit,
or your application hasn't
yet been authorized,
the dialogue hasn't been presented,
you'll end up in this state
if restrictions are enabled.
But unlike the denied state,
the user really can't
change the decision.
So keep that in mind.
Phew, that's a lot of stuff.
There's really a lot to
learn about Core Location,
how to use it,
and we're just adding more.
And I'm really excited with this section
because it goes beyond coordinates,
and latitudes, and longitudes, and speed,
and course, and it gets into things
that users care about,
the way that users think about location.
Because coordinates are
really only part of the story.
We have this CL Location Manager,
and you call Startup Dating Location,
and you get locations back,
and they come to your API.
But they're just numbers.
They're just these digits.
And while you know what they mean,
your users don't.
Users don't think in
latitude and longitude.
They think in terms of descriptions,
in terms of addresses.
When they think of the Moscone Center,
they think of places like,
they think of addresses.
And so, to this point,
it's been difficult to
really do this conversion.
The user tells you a location
that they care about,
and you need to display it on a map,
or you need to convert that to
coordinates for some other reason.
Or you get a location back
from the location service,
and you want to describe
that to the user.
So in iOS 5, we are adding geo-coding
APIs to make this easier.
Thank you.
Pretty exciting.
And we're adding both two
different types of geocoding.
We're adding reverse geocoding,
which is the process of
taking a coordinate and
turning it into an address.
And then we're also adding,
and this is brand new in iOS,
forward geocoding, which allows you to go
in the other direction,
taking an address and
converting it to a lat-long.
So why is this useful?
Well, I've already given you the
high-level spiel about,
you know, makes it meaningful.
What are some concrete use cases?
For one,
it allows you to describe a location.
This is the basic,
you get a location back,
and you want to display it on screen.
You can do that.
You can also do things like
locate an address book contact.
You can present UI to allow the user
to select one of their contacts,
and then immediately know what
that means in terms of coordinates.
You can imagine applications
like tagging notes with the
city where they were written.
If you actually,
if you have the developer's installed
and you go to the Compass application,
you can actually tap the bottom bar,
and it'll give you a description
of where the user is right now.
So that's a concrete example in iOS.
The way that you do this
is with a new class we're
introducing called CL Geocoder.
And this is your way of doing both
forward and reverse geocoding.
Again, forward is address to lat/long.
Reverse is lat/long to address.
Try and keep those in mind.
It's not the most intuitive.
This is a fully asynchronous API.
Just like CL Location Manager,
you're not going to get
results back immediately.
So you basically make a request,
you get a result back when it's ready.
You create one CL Geocoder per
request you're going to make.
If you need to make multiple
requests at the same time,
create multiple geocoders.
So that's your entry point to geocoding.
What you get back is this class
that is called CL Placemark.
And this is returned as a result
from all geocoding requests,
both forward and reverse.
It contains a normalized location,
which is the location essentially
associated with the broader
result that was returned.
So for example,
if you provide a coordinate,
and then you get back, you know,
a particular address,
it will be the coordinate
associated with that address.
It'll give you back a region if
the result that was returned is
actually for some larger landmark,
like maybe you just got
a neighborhood back,
or you got a university
campus or something like that.
You'll get back what we
call an address dictionary,
which is an NSDictionary object
that contains keys and values in a
normalized format that integrates
with the address book framework.
And then finally, you'll get back some
descriptive properties.
These are things like, for example,
if I were to geocode one
infinite loop Cupertino,
California,
you'll get back that that's Apple.
Or if you geocode an ocean
or an inland body of water,
you can actually get descriptions
back that give you kind of more
detailed information about what
that geocoded location actually is.
As I said earlier,
this all integrates really well
with the address book framework.
So you can take the store of information
you already have about essentially
locations the users are interested in,
and really easily integrate
that into your application.
Using CL Geocoder.
So CL Geocoder is a blocks-based API.
Because it's asynchronous,
we actually need you to tell us what
to do when we get the results back.
In CL Location Manager,
we do that via delegate callbacks.
You specify an object and basically say,
hey, when you're done, call this method,
tell me what happened.
On CL Geocoder, it's a little different.
You provide a block,
which is essentially a piece of code that
gets executed when the request completes.
And we call that the completion handler.
A completion handler takes
a couple of arguments.
It takes an array of placemarks.
The reason it's an array is essentially
there may be more than one result.
You know, if the user just entered a
string that's a little ambiguous,
we may not be exactly
sure what they meant,
so we'll return multiple results.
And then if an error occurred,
we'll pass you an error instead,
letting you know what happened.
So why might a geocode fail?
Why might there be an error?
The most common is a network error.
This is a server-based API,
and so a data connection is necessary.
On devices that have an
always active connection,
this isn't such a big deal.
But if you're on, say, an iPod Touch,
and it's not connected to WiFi,
you'll get a network error back.
We may not have any results.
I think we've done a great job,
and you'll hear more about
this later about our coverage.
But particularly if just the
query we got was nonsensical,
we can't make sense of it.
we may not have any results for you.
If you're doing a reverse geocode, again,
coordinates to an address,
and we don't have a network connection,
we can actually do what's called
a partial result device side.
We can tell you what country,
at the very least, that coordinate is in,
just based on a device side database.
And then finally, you can cancel requests
once they're in flight,
and if you do that,
you'll get a canceled callback.
So those are the reasons
why they might fail.
So I mentioned a little bit about the
address book and how they work together.
But there's a variety of
things that you can do.
The first thing is you can use
the people picker to turn the
contact's address into a location.
And I'll go through exactly
how to do that later.
You can store a returned
address that you got,
say, from a geocode,
into the user's address book.
And then finally,
you can also use the address
book to format a return address
in a way that's appropriate for
the device's current locale.
So that's a lot of stuff.
I'd like to invite Richard Heard,
who works on our frameworks team,
who's going to give you a
demo of how all this works.
Take it away, Richard.
Thanks, Morgan.
So today, I'm going to demonstrate to you
a simple geocoding application
that uses the geocoding operations
So first up,
let's have a look at forward geocoding.
Forward geocoding is
where we take an address,
either a string or a dictionary,
and convert it into a set of coordinates.
So for this example,
I'm going to use Castro Street,
San Francisco.
I'm going to leave the region hint unset.
This implies the device's
current location.
And now let's perform the geocode.
So again, we returned an array of
CL placemark objects.
So let's have a look at the
properties on the placemark.
Okay, that looks like Castro Street.
So first up, we have our location object,
which is a seal location.
And the important property here
is actually the coordinate.
Next up, we have a region,
which in this case is not set.
This is only set, again, if it's a large
geographic region or area.
And finally, we have the normalized
address dictionary.
In this case, we can see Castro Street,
San Francisco, Noe Valley, California,
and the postcode.
So that's string geocoding.
So now, let's have a look at
dictionary geocoding.
For this example,
I'm going to select a contact
from the address book.
You'll note that the address here,
John's work address,
does not actually have a postcode.
However, this isn't a problem
for the Geocoding API,
even when you're using
the address dictionary.
So let's perform the geocode.
Again, an array of CL placemarks.
And there we go, 333 Bush.
So we have our location.
We have a region,
which in this case is not set.
And we have a fully
formatted address dictionary.
You'll note that we've actually been
returned the postcode or the zip code.
So this is a really cool way of
cleaning up an address that you're
pulling from the address book.
So that's forward geocoding.
So now let's have a look
at reverse geocoding.
In this case, for this example,
I'm going to use the
device's current location.
So there's our standard location alert.
Cool.
Now let's perform the reverse geocode.
And again,
we returned an array of CL placemarks,
in this case, one.
And here's our address dictionary.
So it looks like we're on Fourth Street.
I think that's probably
the Moscone Center.
So here's our region, again, not set,
and finally, a normalized location.
So that's reversed geocoding.
So now I've got a demo of
a semi-real-world example,
at least.
I was talking to a friend last night,
and he's in town for the
conference at the moment.
And we were trying to work out how far
it is from Melbourne to San Francisco.
We guessed it was about
12,000 kilometers.
But using this example,
we now can calculate it exactly.
So I'm going to search for Melbourne.
Okay.
and let's select San Francisco.
There we go.
12,698 kilometers.
So that's geocoding.
And this is actually-- this sample
application should be available to
you today on the session website.
So with that,
I'd like to hand back over to Morgan,
who will go over a little
bit more about geocoding.
Thanks, Richard.
So hopefully that demo gives you
just a bit of an idea of what you
can accomplish with geocoding.
Now, I'm going to give you just a little
bit of an idea of how the API works.
I'm going to skip part of this
because we're running short on time,
and I want to make sure we get to some of
the cool other stuff we have to show you.
The basics are that you
create a CL Geocoder object.
It's just a straight alloc init.
In this case,
we're doing reverse geocoding,
so we want to create a location.
So you pass in a CL Location
coordinate corresponding to,
in this case, I believe this is Apple.
And then what you do is you tell the
geocoder to reverse geocode the location.
So you pass in the CLLocation object,
and then the other thing you
pass in is this thing that
we call a completion handler.
And again,
this essentially defines what you
want to do when the request finishes.
Now, in this case,
I'm just kind of iterating through
the placemarks and logging them,
but you probably want to do
something like update your UI,
pass the placemarks off
to something like that.
The demo that Richard showed you has
more concrete examples of how to do that.
But at a basic level, it's really easy.
You just have the location that you need,
you pass it in, say,
reverse geocode this, and when it's done,
here's what I want to do.
It really keeps the notion
of I want to geocode,
and what do I do when it's
done really close together.
Now, for forward geocoding,
there are two options, as Richard showed.
The first one is to
use an address string.
And this is essentially just a
string maybe taken from a user,
from a text field, something like that,
that describes the dictionary-- or sorry,
that describes the address.
So in this case,
we just have one infinite loop,
Cupertino.
But once you have that, the process is,
again, very similar.
You tell your geocode to
geocode this address string.
You pass in the string.
And then again, you define the completion
handler that says,
here's what I want to do when it's done.
And that's code that you would provide.
The last thing that you can do
is to use an address dictionary.
And the way that you do this
is-- the most common way that you
would get an address dictionary
is from the Address Book API.
But just for clarity here,
I'm going to build one myself.
So in this case,
I've got my street as one infinite loop,
my city as Cupertino,
and my state as California.
And I want to geocode that.
So I have this dictionary
that I've created.
I pass into the geocoder,
I pass the NSDictionary object,
and again,
I define my completion handler.
So you just have your data, you say,
"Geocode it." When it's done,
here's what I do.
It's pretty straightforward.
Now,
how do you actually get an address from
the address book into the geocoder?
So there are actually
four different steps.
I'm not going to go through the code,
but just to give you an idea.
The first thing is to
present the people picker.
This is a standard view controller that's
provided by the address book UI class.
From there,
you allow the user to navigate
to retrieve the selected address.
You could then geocode it,
and then format it
however you would like.
So presenting the people picker,
you basically create this
navigation controller,
and this is the UI that you get.
It's the standard UI,
very similar to the Contacts application.
And it provides you with a list.
And then from there,
you present the view controller.
But once you get there,
the user will present-- will
essentially select an address
on a particular contact card.
And then once they select that,
you essentially get that address
back via a delegate callback
from the address UI framework,
address book UI framework.
Once you have that,
it's very similar to before.
You just create your geocoder,
tell it to geocode that
address dictionary,
and then do whatever you
want in response to it.
And then obviously at the end,
you need to dismiss your view controller.
Again, the sample code shows you
how to do this in detail.
So that's a lot about the service and
kind of how to use it from our side,
but there's a lot of data
backing the service as well.
So at this point, I'd like to invite up
Pierre-Luc Beaudoin,
who is one of our iOS server engineers,
to discuss the data backing this service.
PIERRE-LUC BEAUDOIN: Thank you.
Hi.
So I am Pierre-Luc Beaudoin.
I work on the iOS server team.
By now you are probably very
excited about this new service,
and...
I can see questions that you might have,
such as,
who's going to be able to use this?
And is this going to be limited at first?
Well, we are actually very happy
to announce that we are
launching with global coverage.
We have-- thank you.
We have extensive coverage for all the
major international iPhone markets.
We also spent a great deal
of time localizing this data.
And you should be able to
search for any significant city,
state,
or country in any of these 30 languages.
And let's have an example
of what that means.
For any point in the world,
the user should be able to read the
returned address in their language.
We also support local languages
down to the street level.
And let's have an example
of what that means.
Let's suppose you're
a tourist in Brussels,
in Europe,
and you would like to taste some
of the very good local beers.
That's you.
Now, you look into your guide
and your American guidebook.
It sends you to this address.
This is the address of a very well-known
cafe where you can taste a lot of beers.
And by the way,
you don't have to be that much
specific when you enter an address,
but for the sake of this example,
let's keep the country in.
Now, suppose you're a French speaker
living in Brussels.
How would this address look like?
It would-- oh, French.
It would look like this.
Notice how different it is.
The ordering has changed.
Both the country and
city name have changed.
Now, how would it look if you're a
Dutch speaker living in Brussels?
It would actually look like this.
Again, a completely different address.
Let's compare them.
This happens because every street
in Brussels have both a French name
and an official Dutch name.
But let me reassure you,
this is something your application
doesn't have to care for,
because all happens on the API side.
Your application needs to
ask the user for an address,
And then the user will use
their natural language.
And our API will return a longitude and a
latitude for your application to consume.
And there's really nothing
else required from your site.
Now,
let's have a reverse geocoding example.
Let's say you are reverse geocoding a
point on the San Francisco City Hall,
and your device is set to English.
Here's the address it would be given.
Now you can see we are returning multiple
levels of geographic containment,
and from locality and down,
those will be localized.
So let's see what happens when
your device is set to Polish.
In that case,
the state and the country name changed,
because it happens that
San Francisco is the same in Polish.
But if your device is set to Russian,
it would look like this.
Again, from locality and down,
it is localized so the users can read it.
So let's recap.
We are launching a global service
with support for multiple languages,
and the result will automatically
match the device's locale.
Thank you.
Thanks, Pierre-Luc.
So this is pretty exciting.
As he mentioned,
we've got this brand new service
that does both forward and
reverse geocoding that we're
launching with global coverage.
It's fully localized,
and your application doesn't need
to care about any of the details.
It'll just work for you.
You may have some questions.
We already have a reverse geocoding
API in MapKit called MK Reverse Geocoder,
and we've had it for a while.
So you may be wondering,
how does this relate to CL Geocoder?
And the answer is that CL Geocoder
has a number of advantages
over the MK Reverse Geocoder.
The first one, the most obvious one,
is that we do both forward
and reverse geocoding.
The MapKit team, I'm sure,
can tell you that they've gotten many,
many requests over the
years for forward geocoding.
So we think this is a
really great step forward.
The other condition that you may
be aware of surrounding MK Reverse
Geocoder is that it requires that
locations be displayed on a map.
That's why the API is in MapKit.
You are geocoding locations for the
purposes of showing them on a map.
In CL Geocoder,
we've dropped that requirement.
You can do forward,
you can do reverse geocoding,
and you can present those results
however you would like to in
the context of your application.
As a result, going forward,
we are deprecating the MapKit geocoder.
We're really excited about CL Geocoder,
and we're really looking
that moving forward,
applications will move to CL Geocoder.
But don't worry.
We're well aware that a lot of use
cases for geocoding are map-based.
And we've worked really closely
with the MapKit team to ensure that
CL Geocoder integrates well with MapKit.
So if you'd like more
information on what that means,
transitioning your MapKit-based
application to use CL Geocoder,
and essentially how the
two APIs work together,
I'd highly recommend going to the
MapKit session tomorrow morning,
bright and early, in Russian Hill,
that talks about-- the
title is Visualizing
Information Geographically with MapKit.
They are talking about how to integrate
this new geocoding service into the API.
So, wrapping up,
we covered a lot of stuff.
Use Location to improve
your users' experience.
There's a lot of potential.
We're just starting to see the beginning.
Make sure to choose the right service.
We have the standard service,
the significant change service,
and the region monitoring service.
They're designed for different things.
They have different trade-offs.
And lastly,
we're really looking forward to
seeing how you use this new geocoding
service to make location data even
more meaningful for your users.
No matter where they're from,
where they're traveling to,
what language they speak,
your application can
provide that experience,
and it can get it for free
from our new Geocoder API.
If you need more information
on any of these new APIs,
I'd really encourage you
to contact Vicky Murley,
who's our evangelist.
Her contact information is there.
Or consult the documentation.
We've updated both the framework
reference as well as the location
awareness programming guide,
with information about geocoding and
how all of the services fit together.
And of course,
there's always your good friend,
the developer forums,
that allow you to get help
from other developers.
With that, oh yes,
there are also some more sessions.
So I also mentioned the MapKit session,
which is tomorrow.
And the other thing that
we're really excited about,
and that you probably heard
a bit about yesterday,
is that in iOS 5, for the first time,
we're adding ways to test your
location of your application
without getting in a car.
We're adding simulator support,
and we're adding a bunch of great new
developer tools to make that easy.
And we're so excited about that,
there just wasn't room
for that in the session.
So we're having a special
session on Friday at 9:00.
I'll be there giving that talk.
And I hope you'll join me to find
out all of the ways that you can
build really robust location-aware
applications that your users will love.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for listening.